# Developer Tips

## Review process

Please read the [review process doc](review_process.md) before sending your
first PR.

## Generate the OpenMRS Docker image

The following steps are used to generate the openmrs docker image bundled with
modules required for this project

1.  Setup latest OpenMrs distro locally:

    ```
    mvn openmrs-sdk:setup -DserverId=openmrs-analytics
    ```

2.  Generate docker image setup using openmrs SDK, this step requires you to
    provide openmrs-distro.properties file path of your openmrs instance.

    ```
    mvn openmrs-sdk:build-distro -Ddistro=/{path}/openmrs-distro.properties`
    ```

    A folder named `docker` is generated which contains a Dockerfile and other
    setup files. Example of [docker
    file](https://github.com/jecihjoy/openmrs-docker-sdk/blob/master/web/Dockerfile)
    generated by openmrs-sdk.

3.  Build the docker image:

    ```
    cd openmrs-analytics/web docker build -t
    openmrs/openmrs-reference-application-distro:analytics .
    ```

4.  Push this image to docker hub `docker push
    openmrs/openmrs-reference-application-distro:analytics`

## Debezium development

When working on a feature in the Debezium based pipeline, you can replay old
binlog updates by setting the system properties `database.offsetStorage` and
`database.databaseHistory` to an old version of the history. In other words, you
can start from history/offset pair A, add some events in OpenMRS (e.g., add an
Observation) to create some updates in the binlog. Now if you keep a copy of
original version of A (before the changes) you can reuse it in future runs to
replay the new events with no more interactions with OpenMRS.

## Running end-to-end tests on Cloud Build

When a Pull Request is submitted, it triggers a request to Google-owned project
running [Cloud Build](https://cloud.google.com/build) to run the build config
file defined in [`cloudbuild.yaml`](../cloudbuild.yaml). Any time a new commit
is submitted for the PR, a new Cloud Build run is triggered. You can see the
status of each run by scrolling to the bottom of the PR to see the status of
each build (pass/running/fail).

To view the logs from one of the builds, click on the `Details` link. This will
take you to a summary page for the build. On this page, you will see the status
of the build, with an associated Build ID. For example:

```text
Build 60a1260b-280a-4390-ad34-b1c1d7a4efb2 successful
```

To view the logs of this build, substitute the build id in place of `BUILD_ID`
in the URL below.

<https://storage.googleapis.com/cloud-build-gh-logs/log-BUILD_ID.txt>

Copy the URL into your browser, and you should see the logs from your build.

In the example above, the URL for the logs for that build would be:

<https://storage.googleapis.com/cloud-build-gh-logs/log-60a1260b-280a-4390-ad34-b1c1d7a4efb2.txt>

>**NOTE**: Clicking on the `View more details on Google Cloud Build` link will
redirect you to a Google Cloud page which you do not have permissions to view.

## Running end-to-end tests locally

The CI pipeline can also be run locally, using the Cloud Build local builder. To
setup the local builder, follow the instructions
[here](https://cloud.google.com/build/docs/build-debug-locally); you will need
Docker, and the Google Cloud SDK to install the local builder. Once the local
builder is installed, do the following:

1. Stop any running `openmrs`, `openmrs-fhir-mysql`, and `sink-server`
   containers by running:

    ```bash
    docker stop sink-server openmrs openmrs-fhir-mysql
    ```

2. Run the e2e-test using the local builder:

    ```bash
    cloud-build-local  --dryrun=false .
    ```

## Regenerate JAR File

Parquet tools library is used to inspect parquet files. The jar file has been
included in the project under `/e2e-tests/parquet-tools-1.11.1.jar`

To regenerate this jar file:

1.  Clone [parquet-mr](https://github.com/apache/parquet-mr)
2.  Checkout last released version `git checkout apache-parquet-1.11.1`
3.  [Install](https://github.com/apache/parquet-mr#install-thrift) thrift
    compiler v0.12.0
4.  To build the jar file run `mvn -pl parquet-tools -am clean install -Plocal
    -DskipTests` You should be able to see `parquet-tools-1.11.1.jar` inside
    parquet-tools module.
5.  Command usage for parquet tools `java -jar ./parquet-tools-<VERSION>.jar
    <command> my_parquet_file`

    NOTE: Parquet tools will be replaced with parquet cli in the next release
    `apache-parquet-1.12.0`
